Every computer has there needs and requirements that components have to be tailored kind of like nations developing their weapons according to their needs. What the user does with the computer dictates the components and peripherals needed. Looking at the computer systems by purpose is a good place to help understand the design.   The following are general specs of each computer type. 


Gaming PCs Gaming  the current platform in which the writer is typing on is a uniqure. Gamers frequently build their own systems, but some computer manufacturers do make gaming PCs. A gaming PC tends to have the following key components: Powerful multi-core processor, High-end video cards with maximum video RAM and the specialized GPU, High-definition sound card and speakers, High-end system cooling Large amount of RAM Large display or dual displays,Quality mouse Possible gaming console and possible Headphones with microphone and Possible 3D glasses. (Who uses 3d glasses to game that’s kind of ridiculous, what benefit would they give them?) 


Audio/Video Editing Workstations An audio/video editing workstation is used to create videos and sound designs. This type requires a lot of hard drive space and RAM. Here are the most configuration components for such a computer: Specialized video card with maximum video RAM and GPU,Specialized audio card and speakers,Very fast and large-capacity hard drives,Dual monitors Powerful multi-core processors, Large amount of system RAM Quality mouse Possible digital tablet or scanner.


 A virtualization workstation can mean a workstation that has at least one operating system or  a workstation that uses hardware and software virtualization techniques to provide an end user with a controlled workstation environment. Each of these situations requires different hardware and software. A virtualization workstation is considered to be the first example. The second example is what is also known as a thin client a virtualization workstation would have the following components: Maximum CPU cores,Maximum RAM Multiple, fast, large-capacity hard drives, Possible SSDs,  Possible network-attached storage (NAS) for increased storage space that can be shared with other devices.

A thin client workstation is a desktop or laptop that has a display, mouse, keyboard, and network connectivity and runs applications from a server. Thin client computers are usually  less expensive than a normal workstation. Storage tends to be cloud-based or on remote storage media. But both the hardware and software environment could be virtualized in order to provide a controlled environment. Many corporations use thin clients. Characteristics to look for in a thin client computer include the following: Meets minimum requirements for selected operating system,1Gb/s preferred network connectivity,Basic applications Optional display privacy screen.

Thick Client Workstations in contrast is the most common type of desktop or laptop in the work environment. Applications are installed and documents are commonly stored on the local hard drives. An all-in one computer could be a thick client computer. Computers in small businesses tend to be thick client workstations. A standard thick client computer has the following characteristics: Meets recommended hardware requirements for selected operating system,Meets recommended hardware and software requirements for running desktop applications ,Optional display privacy screen, Optional dual displays.

Home Theater PCs are computers located near to and part of a home theater. As such, an HTPC has output video more suited for a TV than a computer display. HTPCs typically have a programmable remote control for control of  the home theater components. HTPC components include the following: Compact form factor case and motherboard with quiet case and power supply fans,Surround-sound audio ports,HDMI video output,TV tuner card or cable card to receive pay channels Audio/video hard drive that is quiet Media player to stream entertainment, watch videos, and view photos, or listen to music,Possible wireless connectivity Digital video recorder (DVR) to record TV shows, transfer data from a camcorder or camera, or store movies or media for playback Large display with multiple HDMI, USB, component, composite, and so on audio/video ports and possible wireless connectivity, May have a Linux-based operating system Optional gaming device.


Home Servers  computer is used to store data, function as a web server, print server, or file server, control media streaming, be accessible from outside the home, control devices, and manage backups of other computers. (That explains the excessive amount of serves and racks we have in the basement.) The home server in the top-right corner physically connects to the wireless router. Typical components found in a home server include the following: Multiple hard drives in a RAID array configuration,1Gb/s (1000Mb/s) NIC Medium to large case Multiple processors or multiple cores in the processor, Lots of RAM Server applications including media streaming, file sharing, and print sharing Possible NAS ,Possible KVM switch.

An Industrial Computers is one used for a specific industry. For example, in a car repair shop, the standard computers used both inside the showroom and in the service and repair center might be in an enclosure or have keyboard coverings. A kiosk in a mall or school might contain or be controlled by a computer. A kiosk is commonly used to show maps, provide directions, locate personnel, or provide information. Here are some things components required r for an industrial computer: Meets recommended hardware requirements based on applications installed Optional enclosure for wet, dry, or outdoor environments, Optional enclosure for a laptop’s external keyboard and mouse for unsecure or outdoor environments, Optional LCD enclosure for harsh, outdoor, public, high-traffic, or industrial environments,Optional privacy display screen, Case with air filters that may be removable for cleaning.

A mobile computer for someone who travels as part of  their job also needs special design considerations. Considerations for an “on-the-road” computer design include the following: Laptop, ultrabook, or tablet Sufficient RAM Might need mobile broadband connectivity,Possible SSD,Compatible smartphone, Possible projector, Possible thermal printer for sales-oriented tasks, Possible portable speakers and noise cancellation headphones to prevent excess noise and conversation. 

The motherboard, chipset, and CPU are all related to one another and should be  designed in conjunction with one another. Using a motherboard that has a Intel Haswell chipset, for example, gives you up to 6 USB 3.0 ports, a built-in GPU, or a PCIe v3.0 video card expansion slot. You might consider the AMD 990FX chipset to get support for four graphics cards, but you won’t get a PCIe v3.0 slot barring any unforeseen technological advances. Some technicians choose a motherboard based on a specific chipset. Because there might be issues with a specific chipset, but the user might still need high-end video or USB version 3.0 ports. There might be only one chipset that gives you two PCIe v3.0 slots for bridging video cards or a high number of USB 3.0 ports. In any case, this is something to consider. You also have to remember that things change all the time. Newer technologies such as Skylake, Broadwell, USB 3.1, Thunderbolt, and DDR4 may influence decision making. 


Choosing a processor involves selecting Intel or AMD, determining the amount you want, and selecting a specific model. Throughout the years, both manufacturers tend to have had a low-end model for cheaper, less powerful computers, a mid range processor that gives pretty good bang for the buck, and very powerful processors. If you select one of the high-end CPUs, you must have appropriate cooling for it. When comparing processors, you may also want to consider the nanotechnology used. Processor technology length is measured in nanometers. 1 nanometer is 0.000000001 in length. Processors and chipsets created using the 14-nm or 22-nm technology can have more transistors in the same amount of space as the processors/chipsets created using the 32-nm  or 45- nm technology. Usually the smaller the technology, the lower the heat produced. With lower heat, some components can be made to go faster, but this not does not always happen.


Memory ties into processor technology because the type of motherboard and chipset you have will dictate the type of memory supported, the maximum amount of memory the motherboard manufacturer might consider putting on the motherboard and the maximum memory speed that can be used. Whenever a technician is upgrading or replacing a motherboard, compatibility with existing components is a requirement.

 The most important design consideration for memory is to take advantage of the  dual-, triple-, and quad-channeling when possible. Ensure that the DIMMs and SO-DIMMS are purchased together and installed according to the recommendations in the motherboard/computer manual.  Encourage the end user to buy as much RAM as he or she can initially afford. This area is one of the most influential considerations on the user computing experience. upgrade this subsystem component as much as possible. When dealing with the motherboard, consider the following: Motherboard form, factor Chipset ,Whether the CPU is included or needs to be purchased separately, CPU size Motherboard socket size Nanotechnology used with the processor and/or chipset, CPU cooling, RAM Number and type of input/output (I/O) ports Traditional BIOS or UEFI.


The storage subsystem consists of magnetic or flash technologies for internal or external hard drives, flash storage (including SSDs), or optical drives. When adding, replacing, or building a storage subsystem, the customer’s needs must be taken into account. These needs include how long the customer plans on storing the data, and how long the customer thinks the storage subsystem will be in use before being upgraded or replaced.






When a computer does not work properly, technicians must exhibit one essential trait the willpower to succeed. The main objective is to return the computer or peripheral to service as quickly and economically as possible. When the computer is down, a business will  lose revenue and productivity.  Therefore, a technician must have a good attitude and a large amount of perseverance and  drive to resolve the problem at hand quickly, efficiently, and in a professional, helpful manner.

Technicians must also use all available resources to achieve their goals.   Resources can be documentation for a particular peripheral, motherboard, or the  computer, the Internet,another technician, corporate documentation, textbooks,experience with similar problems, training materials,  previous service history on a particular customer/computer, or an online database provided by a company or partner. Technicians can and will be stubborn, but they must always remember that time is money, and solving a problem quickly and  with the least amount of downtime to the customer is a critical component of a computer support job. 

Evaluating and solving a technology problem is a high-level objective in Bloom’s Taxonomy. Teaching someone to troubleshoot is challenging. Not every problem can be described in a step-by-step fashion. Troubleshooting is easier if a technician uses reasoning and takes the following steps to solve the problem:  Identify the problem,Establish a theory of probable cause (question the obvious),  Test the theory to determine the cause,  Establish a plan of action to resolve the problem and implement the solution,Verify full system functionality and, if applicable, implement preventive measures, Document findings, actions, and outcomes.


1.Three most important aspects I would focus on is Memory/RAM storage capacity, its mobility to allow the person to use it both at work and at home and finally I would focus selecting the processor to allow for reduce the time needed to execute tasks. 

2. The last issue I had to deal with was when I froze and refused to move. In response to this I tried step 2 which essentially was google to problem and select the solution that is the most applicable. Then I tried to implement  the solution which was use the arrow keys to get to the setting’s cursor and icon and then turn whatever systems has been accidentally  turned off sometimes its the touchpad or the cursor icon.  Then I usually call it because I’m still trying to figure out why it keeps happening and what can I do to prevent it. 
